How to Reach Out
There are numerous avenues to reach out to people. You can do a search on LinkedIn and message a few people with interesting backgrounds or current jobs. Or, you can attend a public networking event and ask someone you meet there.

Consider the following tips on how to start reaching to people for informational interviews.

Leverage your existing network.
Friends, former supervisors, colleagues, family, and alumni groups are all communities filled with people who have your best interest at heart. If you've enrolled in a Nanodegree program, you are already a part of a robust community of driven, supportive people - your Nanodegree community!

Asking your community at large is the easiest way to get information. Sometimes, you don't even need to ask a specific person; you can post a message like this on your social media profile:

“Hey! I am currently in the process of transitioning into [x field] and would love to talk to any [y roles or employees at z company] to gain a better understanding of the work and industry. Please send me a direct message, and I’ll be happy to buy you coffee!”

Target meetups, career fairs, public events, and LinkedIn.
Industry professionals are often interested in maintaining an active network and mentoring new talent. While each individual may have their own style and time constraints, being proactive and letting others know you are both interested and dedicated can yield great conversations and future contacts.

Target companies and roles separately.
Consider this example: if you are seeking out a product manager position but your only contact at your dream company is someone in Sales, you can still take the opportunity to learn more about the company culture and vision. They may also be able to provide an introduction to a product manager within the company. On the other hand, speaking with a product manager at a company or in an industry outside of your immediate interests can also be worthwhile as a way to learn about the role’s professional responsibilities.

Request an Informational Interview
An initial email or longer LinkedIn message are two of the most common ways of extending a request for an informational interview. Consider the following when crafting your message:

Your tone should be gracious; at no point should you assume that they are obligated to offer you their time or attention, regardless of how you know each other.
Make sure that your email is concise and specific. For example, if you're hoping for a 20-minute phone call, you can say: "If you have time for a 20-minute phone call, I would appreciate the opportunity to learn more about the company."
Sometimes, you will not get an immediate reply. The person could be on vacation or overwhelmed with messages.
Be sure to allow enough time (up to 2 weeks) for a response. If they have not responded within a week, you can send one follow-up inquiry.
If you aren’t able to schedule a live conversation, the contact may be still willing to answer some questions over email or LinkedIn.

Exercise
Complete the exercise below in order to help you draft a good email or message requesting a meeting. In this exercise, we've provided examples of different types of asks and content that you can find in an informational interview request.

Try to get the correct match by dragging each example next to the corresponding content type in the table below.

QUIZ QUESTION
Are you familiar with the language and tone of an informational interview request? Pair up the content type and answer by dragging and dropping the blue sentences.






CONTENT TYPE

EXAMPLE

Reason for reaching out

Your career interest

Explanation of how contact’s position/background connects with your career interest and reason for reaching out

Your connection to the person, if there is any

Details on where, when, and how you would like to carry out the informational interview

